# Basic commands for Linux beginners

## Playing with files

1. Display files and folders 

    You can use **ls** command to list files and folders in Linux system.
        
    `ls`

    We will explore this command later again in detail.

2. Create an empty file

    You can use **touch** command to create an empty text file.

    `touch file1.txt`

    Nano, vi and vim are the text editors used in following commands.

    You need to be familiar with the following text editors before using them. 
    
    They are actually simple to learn. We will learn them soon.

    `nano file1.txt`

    `vi file1.txt`

    `vim file1.txt`

3. Insert content in empty file

    If you are not using a  text editor to put data inside a file, then **echo** command can be used.    
    Put the text inside single or double quotes and the use **>** simbol (redirection operator) followed by a filename.
    
    `echo "Started learning Linux commands" > file1.txt`

    You can use command line text editors like nano, vi or vim to insert data in text files.

4. Display text file contents

    You can see the contents of text file using **cat** command.
    Also you can use text editors like nano, vi or vim etc.
    
    `cat file1.txt`

5. Copy file to another file

    You can copy files and folders with **cp** command. 

    `cp file1.txt file2.txt`

    After this command, you will get another __file2.txt__ file in same folder with same file content.

6. Delete a file

    Now you two same files in your folder, let's delete one file out of both using **rm** command.

    `rm file2.txt`


7. See system date and time

    Use **date** command to see date and time of your system.

    `date`

Practice these commands more and more, and the move to next lession.








